1. A monopoly is an industry that is controlled by a monopolist, which is a producer that makes a good with no substitutes.
2. Market power is the ability of a company to manipulate the price of an item in the market in order to increase their economic profit. 
3. One way of creating a monopoly is by controlling a scare resources or input in an industry. If one firm has complete control over an input or resource needed to make a product, then other firms cannot even enter the market in the first place, resulting in a monopoly occuring in the industry. Another way that a monopoly is created is due to economies of scale. If a good has a high fixed cost associated with its production and it is in high demand, like gas, then large firms supplying the good in large quantities are thereby better able to offset the fixed cost. On the other hand, smaller firms are barred from entry into the market due to their smaller market share making it so that they cannot really offset the fixed cost. Thus, economies of scale can result in the creation of a monopoly. A third way a monopoly is created is due to technological superiority. If a firm has better technology than its competitors, then it can produce better versions of a product as well as more of the product, resulting in the firm's monopoly over the market. A fourth way that a monopoly is created is through government barriers. Government barriers include things like patents and copyright, where the inventor or creator is the only one that can create and profit from their product, which is a monopoly.
4. When a monopolist sells one more good, by the quantity effect, the total revenue increased by the price of the additional unit sold. However, by the price effect, the price of all units sold is decreased, so the total revenue decreases by the amount that the unit price is decreased multiplied by the total quantity already sold. The sum of the increase in total revenue due to the quantity effect and the decrease in total revenue due to the price effect is the marginal revenue of the monopolist.
5. A monopolist determines their profit maximization price based on where their marginal revenue is equal to their marginal cost.
6. The economic profit for a monopoly is determined by finding the total revenue of the monopoly at its profit maxmization point and then subtracting the total cost of the monopoly at the profit maximization point.
7. One difference between a monopoly and perfect competition is that the monopoly will produce less than perfect competition. Since the marginal revenue of a monopoly intersects marginal cost at a lower quantity than the marginal revenue of perfect competition, its profit maximization point is at a lower quantity, so a monopoly produces less. Another difference between a monopoly and perfect competition is that a monopoly charges a higher price for a good. In perfect competition, since firms are price takers, the marginal revenue for firms in perfect competition is market price, so firms produce where market price intersect marginal cost. The marginal revenue for monopolies is below the demand due to the price effect, and it therefore intersects marginal cost at a lower quantity, thereby resulting in a higher pricing on the good. A third difference between a monopoly and perfect competition is that a monopoly can earn an economic profit. Since firms in perfect competition can freely enter or exit the market when there economic profit or loss being made, firms in perfect competition will never have economic profit in the long run. However, the barriers to entry in a monopoly means that no other firms can enter the industry inhabited by the monopoly, meaning a monopoly can make an economic profit if it wants to.   
